# If

Sometimes we only want to run some code when a condition is met. Imagine you are writing software to check if a person is old enough to be admitted to a club. In English I would say something like "if the age is less than 18 print 'you are not old enough'. Otherwise, print 'you are old enough'." Let's see what that looks like in Python.

```python
age = 16

if age < 18:
    print("you are not old enough.")
```

So far so good. We see the keyword `if` followed by a conditional. That's an expression that evaluates to a Boolean. Then a colon followed by an indented block of code. If the conditional evaluates to true the block of code is executed. Otherwise, well, what if we run the following?

```python
age = 20

if age < 18:
    print("you are not old enough.")
```

Nothing happens! We probably want to print something if the person is old enough. Let's modify our code.

```python
age = 20

if age < 18:
    print("you are not old enough.")
else:
    print("you are old enough!")
```

The above will print "you are old enough". The syntax is similar, we have another special keyword `else` followed by a colon and an indented block of code. This block will only execute if the previous condition was false.

One more wrinkle, le's make our club harder to get into:

```python
age = 20

if age < 18:
    print("you are not old enough.")
elif age < 21:
    print("you are almost old enough")
else:
    print("you are old enough!")
```

We've introduced the somewhat awkward `elif` keyword. This is short for "else if". Let's read the above block of code as if it's a sentence.

If age is less than 18 print "you are not old enough"
Otherwise, if age is less than 21 print "you are almost old enough"
Finally, if neither condition was true print "you are old enough!"

What if we write something like the following?
```python
age = 20

if age < 18:
    print("you are not old enough.")
if age < 21:
    print("you are almost old enough.")
else:
    print("you are old enough!")
```

The above works fine if the age is 18 or over. What happens if it is 17 or less?

Two things print! Both "you are not old enough." and "you are almost old enough." What happened?

We broke the chain of if, elif, and else. Before one and only one of the indented blocks could be run and that's a powerful guarantee.